# Simple Parser for Messenger Chat Logs

Parse Facebook Messenger chat logs and generate simple word clouds.


## Setup

Run the setup script to generate directories the scripts will use.

```
$ ./setup.sh
```

It is highly recommended to create a virtual environment (virtualenv)
beforehand.

Please use **Python 3**. This project works with Python 2, but cannot be run
inside a virtualenv.

```
$ python -m venv [virtualenv_name]
$ source [virtualenv_name]/bin/activate
```

Next, install requirements:

```
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

When done, type `deactivate` to exit the virtualenv.

## Usage

### Download Messenger chat logs

From Facebook web page:

1. Go to "Settings" (Click the downward triangle in the upper right corner)
2. Click "Download a copy of your Facebook data" at the bottom of
"General Account Settings"
3. Click on "Start My Archive". It may take a while to finish.
4. Download the archive zip and extract it.
5. Move the file `html/messages.htm` to `raw/` directory
(generated by `./setup.sh`)

### Parse chat logs

To get the messages from a single person:

```
$ python parse.py -f "John Doe"
```

This will generate a text file in the `output` directory. Please note that the
name provided must match the person's name as displayed in the Messenger app.

To get the messages from conversations between a person and yourself:

```
$ python parse.py -f "John Doe" -s "Your Name"
```

Note that this considers conversations between that person and you,
i.e. group conversations are ignored. Also note that a name other yours will
not cause the script to fail but will instead produce incorrect
results (assuming you are interested in conversations that have actually
occurred).

### Render word cloud

```
$ python render.py -i [path to text]
```

## Credits

Inspiration: https://github.com/MasterScrat/ChatShape
